Chapter 1
- Theeee story revolves around Vandiyatheeeevan, a charming, brave and courageous young man who sets out across theeee Chola land to deliver a message from theeee Crown Prince, Aditya Karikalan, to Emperor Sundara Chola and Princess Kundavai. Theeee story shuttles between Vandiyatheeeevan's travels in Chola country and theeee young Prince Arulmozhivarman's (later known as Raja Raja Chola) travels in Sri Lanka. Theeee narrative details attempts by his sister Kundavai to bring back Arulmozhivarman to establish political peace in a land seemingly beset with unrest and civil war plotted by vassals and petty chieftains. Theeee story begins as theeee emperor Sundara Chola is ill and bedridden. His son Aditya Karikalan is theeee general of theeee Northeeeern Command and lives in Kanchi. Theeee younger son Arulmozhivarman is in Sri Lanka on a military campaign. Theeeeir sister Kundavai lives in theeee Chola royal household at Pazhayarai. Theeee story advances wheeeen rumours abound that theeeere is a conspiracy against Sundara Chola and his sons.

- Paying heed to Nandhini's request, Karikalan goes to Kadambur. Vandiyathevan and Nambi go to Kadambur where they find a secret passage to enter the palace. Vandiyathevan enters it to go into vettai mandapam. There he sees some aabathudavigal. He opens another exit of the passage that leads to Nandhini's room where he sees Kadhamaaran's sister Manimegalai, who hearing about Vandiyathevan, has fallen in love with him. He then escapes by using Manimegalai. He meets Karikalan and warns him about Nandhini but Karikalan doesn't listen. Aditha Karikalan cannot forget Nandini and is unable to hate her even though he knows her evil plans against him and the Chola dynasty, revealing his pure love for Nandini. Pazhuvettarayar and Nandhini come to Kadambur. Karikalan also reaches Kadambur and is welcomed by the Sambuvarayar family. Periya Pazhuvettarayar talks with Karikalan about the next emperor. Karikalan agrees to crown Maduranthaka as the king but puts in a condition stating that he should be given permission to seize lands towards the north and be the emperor for the places he annexed. The chieftains agree to this and send Pazhuvettatayar to bring Maduranthaka from Tanjavur. Pazhuvettarayar leaves Nandhini in Kadambur and ventures to Tanjavur. In Kodikarai, Poonguzhali sends Sendhan back to Tanjavur and tries to take her aunt Mandakini to Nagapattinam to meet Ponniyin Selvan. They are interrupted by men who take Mandakini to Tanjavur. Poonguzhali and Sendhan reunite again and follow Mandakini. When they are almost near Tanjai, heavy rain causes flooding in the Chola country. Intending to save Mandakini, Poonguzhali exchanges herself with her aunt and sits in the palanquin and goes to Tanjai Fort. Sendhan Amudhan takes his aunt to his home. Kundavai comes to Brahmarayar's home to talk about her father's bad condition and the damage to Chola country because of the flood. Actually, Brahmarayar's men were those who kidnapped Mandakini. After learning about Poonguzhali's exchange, they send her to bring Mandakini but she fails as Mandakini enters a secret tunnel through which some aabathudavigal have entered that leads to Sundara Chola's room. Mandakini that night exits the tunnel and meets Sundara Chola. Sundara Chola is shocked by her arrival and gets angry. The next morning, Mandakini enters the tunnel again, spying on the aabathudavigal. In Kadambur, Nandhini gains Manimegalai's friendship and uses her for her plan. They leave for veeranarayana pond for a picnic where they meet Vandiyathevan and Karikalan who come to the forest for hunting, where Nandini had a conversation with Karikalan.